Now, how do I convince my
team to do all this stuff?
>> That's-
>> It's a question I always have.
>> Yeah, I mean,
let's talk about that a little bit.
That's a tricky question cuz
every team is different, right?
I have had the secret advantage of,
I've been able to pull rank for
a really long time now.
Do you know what I mean?
So I am not the best person to answer
that question unfortunately because
I've either been the most senior
engineer or everyone's boss, right?
That's a new, previously,
I was just, whatever,
at least had no actual authority, but
at least a title that made people
think that I had some power.
I had no power as the frontend
architect at Twilio.
It was mostly me kinda
trying to salesmanship and
charisma my way to getting stuff done,
but there was probably an illusion,
right, that I was fancier
than I really was.
So it not always depends on the team.
But I think part of it is, to be honest,
cuz I was anticipating a question like
this, so I thought about it on the plane.
I think part of it is,
I have worked on teams
where the person who
wants to have the most,
Ambitious lint rules, how about that?
And there the person wants to have
a 90% code coverage enforced thing.
Not always the exemplars on the team,
right?
And so it's hard to make that.
And so I think part of it is leading
by example is my way of saying that,
which is like, hey, I'm willing to
hold myself to this standard and
look at the positive change.
And understanding change management is
a whole thing in and of itself, right?
You don't want a New Year's resolution,
this stuff, which is, you know what,
new rule,
we're gonna have all of these lint rules.
You add one, one after an incident.
You know what I mean?
One after we caught something, and then
you add a second one a little bit later,
right?
And you slowly, people don't want
the world changed out from beneath them,
they have jobs to do.
Yes, everyone wants to work
in a healthy code base and
everyone wants to be fit and
all of these things, right?
And the answer is not necessarily like
you're gonna immediately change everything
all of a sudden, it's like maybe you just
put on your running shoes in the morning,
you don't even have to go over a run.
All right, and all that stuff that you
read in books from the airport applies to
your code base too, right?
And I think that kind of small
change management getting people
on board because there is a value.
These patterns and practices don't
exist for the fun of it, right?
They exist because they work,
but sometimes you people need to,
you start with something small,
people see the value in that.
You kind of move the Overton
window a little bit, and
then you do the next thing, right?
And then slowly, everyone's like,
remember when we had to manually test
every PR for two hours every Friday so
we could release on a Monday?
Yeah, that was bad, good thing we
don't have to do that anymore.
And you're like, let me tell you
about enforcing rules on commit
messages to automate the release notes so
that I don't have to write them by hand.
That one's gonna be a harder sell.
They all said yes, but
I haven't done it yet.
Do you know what I mean?
I think that when like, because I do
it all the commits against whatever.
You start with like let's
have a more maintainable,
you start with those playwright tests.
Boom, right?
Yeah, they're slow cuz they clicked
everything on the app and they're like two
of them, but then they caught a thing
that we didn't ship to production.
[LAUGH] Dope, right?
Let's do the accessibility checks on just
the design system components, right?
Unless maybe just as
warnings to the beginning,
now we have fully accessible and
compliant things.
And then you hope that the reason I
found the lint issues is I had a bike,
two people from sales and two people
from solution architecture going like,
just a question, what is it?
What is it, w?
>> CIG, okay?
>> Yeah, are we that compliant?
And I'm like, let me check, and
that's when I found out the issue.
I was like, no, but we could be like,
no, it's not a big deal,
I was just asking cuz someone asked.
And I was like the third time
someone in a week asked me that,
I'm like I understand how this plays out.
Three months now,
they wanna sign a contract, and
they have our stipulation and
now we're pulling all hands on deck move.
So we just slowly dealt with them,
and that hasn't happened yet.
But my suspicion is that in
a month when it does happen and
we're like, yeah, we're ready,
that value add for
the team is there that we didn't
have to go through that death march.
In order to do it, I think that stuff
starts to accumulate over time, and
that's how you make the change.
You don't come in like, yo,
I went to this workshop for two days and
I think we should lint all the things and
break everything.
Code coverage, it's gonna be 1,000,
you are not gonna be everyone's
favorite person, [LAUGH] right?
And it's about figuring out the long term,
the quote that I think
a lot about just as a gen.
If you wanna end this on life philosophy,
here's the quote I think a lot about,
it's pretty true to six different people.
Let's take your favorite pick,
which is people overestimate
what they can do in a year and
drastically underestimate what
they can do in ten years, right?
And those small changes add up.
>> How do you manage testing components
where you have to navigate to
a particular route in order
to render that component?
>> You have two choices, right?
One is you can take the browser and
go for it, right?
But that's probably not
the answer that you wanted.
The other piece then is it comes
down to the doing the work to
break out the components so
you can lift it out of the codebase.
And that's where a component has,
yeah, there's so much stuff happening,
marking out the entire
world is gonna be hard.
At that point, with a certain
amount of passing the dependencies,
can you get to the point where
everything that it needed for
where it was lodged into that code base?
Can you pass those things in and
then pass them in there and
then lift it out and
then pass in a similar?
And I TypeScript here makes it a little bit
easier to because you will get yelled
at if it is not a compliant
function lifted out.
And then that's where I might choose
to use a component test, right, so
that I don't have to navigate
all the way there, right?
But it's tricky cuz it's very easy to talk
about in the abstract, it's very easy.
You just left out your component testing.
Yeah, I tried to do that for two or
three of the examples here, and
I found out that even in my code base,
a little bit easier said than done.
In all fairness, I had to weigh,
I'm not lifting this out for
anything other than an example.
And I had to weigh it against what's
faster writing a fictitious example or
lifting this out for
no actual value other than that.
And so yeah, there was that,
but even in my own code base,
it's like I understand that a lot of
the stuff is easier said than done.
To my point earlier is you wanna do
all these things tomorrow, right?
With the entire tool set
that we talked about,
there's probably something
that seems the easiest, right?
Start with that,
slowly improve the code base over the next
year, don't try to fix it next week.
>> What does the translation
layer look like in code?
>> So the concept I stole from Ember,
it is whatever garbage deeply nested
object that some backend engineer thought
was a good idea cuz they just stitched it
together from a bunch of other objects.
Cuz they're used to, yeah,
I need a flat thing to have some props
that I wanna dig down,
whatever, like gnarly.
Objects were, the thing that I need for
the H1 or the H2 is seven layers deep.
And in every component where I need it,
I'm going down there.
It is literally not different from
that ESLint rule that we saw.
But it is literally a thing that takes
these gross objects that I'm used
to dealing with all the time and
makes it into a nice, flat,
easy object where everything's
formatted correctly.
That is almost the perfect example
of what you could unit test.
You grab the JSON, you go into Chrome,
you go to your network tab,
you hit copy response,
you paste it into unit test, right?
Then you expect it to be what
you wish that your API was.
And then you start doing
things until it is.
And now, instead of calling fetch,
you call that request from API,
you call get whatever is in your app.
Everything passes through there, right,
and gets formatted the way you want,
and you never think about
your gross API again.